United Nations Secretary General and
other world leaders have called for
restraint in the Middle East after
what's believed to have been an Israeli
attack on Iran overnight us officials
say Israel was responsible for a missile
strike the Israeli government hasn't
officially commented Iran says the
attack didn't cause any damage and
indicated there would be no
retaliation there were reports of
explosions in Syria Iraq and most
significantly in Iran in the province of
isv Han in the middle of the country the
area is home to an airbase and several
nuclear sites as well as a missile
Factory us officials called it an
Israeli missile strike Iranian media
said three small drones were involved in
a moment we'll hear from our North
America editor Sarah Smith in Washington
and our chief International
correspondent Lisa set first though
let's hear from Lucy Williamson in
Jerusalem well there reports tonight
that Israel's defense minister has been
having conversations with his us
counterpart there's obviously been a lot
of pressure from Israel's allies to
contain this crisis and the sense here
tonight is that both Israel and Iran may
be looking for a way to avoid escalating
it but this is the middle east's most
dangerous conflict and this crisis has
changed calculations on both
sides a message not of War but of
warning that Israel could also strike
its enemy at home if it
wanted after threatening a harsh and
massive response to the smallest
incursion Iran has downplayed the
morning
strike it president didn't mention it
once in his speech
today and this is the situation in
esphahan
shown on Iranian TV the message nothing
to see here other than that nothing has
happened everything is back to
normal Israel was divided over how to
respond to Iran's barrage last weekend
the Judgment of one farri right cabinet
minister this morning lame and in
Jerusalem's main market today many
others were disappointed when a bully
comes to you we're going to respond to
the bully with restraint the bully is
just going to come back harder and
harder and harder but if you want to
take down bully got it take down with
Force I expected more to be quite honest
I think more would have been even
Justified considering they sent 300
arets to kill so many people I think
that we're losing we're losing the war
with Hamas we're losing the war with kah
we're losing the war with Iran we lose
again it's a Pity we have so much
strength but we're afraid to use
it last weekend Iran fired more than 300
drones and missiles towards Israel
punishment it said for the assassination
of a senior commander in Syria earlier
this month all but a handful was shot
down before hitting Israeli
soil this missile fuel tank pulled by
Israel's Army from the Dead Sea Israel's
allies urged it to take the win and
avoid escalating the conflict we're
committed to Israel's security we're
also committed to de-escalating uh to
trying to bring
uh this tension to a to a close this
strike and Iran's muted response to it
suggest both sides a keen to step back
from this conflict but their direct
confrontation last weekend has left them
in a new more dangerous position the
immediate risk may be cooling but from
where they stand now it's a shorter
route to
war is one analyst says there's a lesson
for the future in Iran deciding to act
even when it knew Israel would respond
they considered it and they took it into
account and they decided to do it so
they there is a change in the way that
they are thinking and therefore I have
to take into account that in the future
they will be doing the same things and
this is the big question because Israel
is not going to stop a attacking any
arms that are coming across Iraq the
Iraqi Syrian
border Iran today avoided blaming Israel
directly even as crowds called for its
destruction after Friday prayers but
Israel is already fighting iran-backed
groups across the region even if this
crisis is subsiding the Sparks that
triggered it will not Lucy Williamson
BBC News
Jerusalem well our North America editor
is Sarah Smith uh Sarah President Biden
of course had urged restraint what's
being said in Washington
tonight well interestingly President
Biden and those around him are very
deliberately saying almost nothing about
this today except to confirm that the US
wasn't involved in any military
operations and that's because amid the
relief there is here that the Israeli
response was relatively small scale they
don't want to Fan the Flames of anything
by statements or commentary that's
coming out of here but you're right
President Biden had urged Israel to take
the wind I.E the massive failure of
Iran's attack on their last weekend and
not to retaliate um and that and and of
course as we saw Israel didn't do that
there's growing frustration here it has
to be said about Israel's tactics not
just this attack on Iran but also uh
what's been happening in gaza's causing
mounting concern but the limited success
that America has had in trying to limit
Israel's operations there I mean the US
does remain Israel's biggest backer by
far militarily diplomatically and even
financially uh this this weekend the
Congress is going to vote on over 26
billion dollars of Aid that to be sent
to Israel but it doesn't seem to buy
them as much influence as the White
House would ideally like all right Sarah
thank you and let's get the thoughts of
our chief International correspondent
Lee tet who is here with me and we heard
Iran indicated there would be no
retaliation for this do we take that at
face value for now this round seems to
be over both sides believe they have
sent a very clear signal to their Arch
Enemy that if they strike there'll be a
heavy price to pay in other words they
believe they have reestablished
deterrence for Iran this limited strike
which Israel hasn't officially
acknowledged gave them vital political
space that they could say nothing
happened that they don't have to invoke
that rule that new rule that when Israel
strikes Iran will hit back immediately
and hard for Israel this lied strike
seems as we've been hearing to be a
warning Salvo that Israel can and will
strike the Beating Heart of Iran the
central province of Isfahan which is
home to a nuclear facility a major air
base an industrial Heartland which
produces the drones and missiles which
Iran sent into Israel by the hundreds
last Sunday so behind Iran's dismissal
even mockery of what happened this
morning there's still much for Iran to
worry about and as we've been hearing
the grief this the roots of this
confrontation aren't over the griev has
cause a war Iran's networks a network of
proxies armed militias across the region
and of course what has been a decades
long hostility between these Regional
Rivals so tonight there is a palpable
sense of relief in the region in
capitals including London no one wants
an all at War but tonight no one can say
for certain and what will happen next